So far, our application has only single page, we don't navigate around to other pages, we just have single home page. Most websites we create going to have probably more than one page, so we need a way to introduce multiple different pages or routes in our react application and the way we do this in react is with the react router but before we talk about how that works let us know how a typical multi-page website works.

Typical website not using react handling multiple pages: Start in the browser by typing a url in the address bar and hitting enter that sends a request to that server for that address and the server handles it. The server is generally going to send back full html page which we then view in a browser now if a user was to click on a link on that website to another page like the contact page it then sends a brand new request to the server and then the server responds by sending back a new contact html page and we view that in the browser and the cycle would continue over and over as we click other page links on the website. So we're constantly making request to the server for new pages.

Websites using react handling multiple pages:
 Now react applications don't work like this. They delegate all the routing and changing of page content to the browser only and it starts the same way we make an initial request in the browser the server then responds to that by sending back the html page to the browser but it also sends back our compiled react javascript files which controls our react application. So from this point on, react and the react router can take full control of the application. So initially, the html page we get back is virtually empty and then react injects the content dynamically using the components that we create if we then decide to click on a link to a new page the react router is going to step in and intercept that request to stop it from going to the server and instead it's going to look at the new page request and inject the rquired content on the screen. For example clicking on a contact link the react router will tell react to inject.


 2:23 minutes in video